README.md, before:

# SacreBleu Suite
System Audit & Contextual Restriction Engine & Binary Logic Enforcer Utility (made up words to fit the name).

SacreBleu is made of 3 tools that help you pack your security policy into the headers of elf binaries in Linux. This means that you can set fine grained security policies (syscall whitelists and filesystem restrictions via Landlock) and inject them directly into ELF binaries, and enforce them at runtime. This is useful for shipping "sane defaults" for your tool. Currently, it supports directory/file access permissions through landlock, and syscall allowlists. It's an experiment in bundling reasonable security policies for applications, so that they are well behaved. 

## Core Components

### 1. `sb-gen` (Generator)
The **Generator** uses `ptrace` to observe a target application's execution and generate a baseline security policy. 
*   **Mechanism:** Intercepts syscalls during execution and deduplicates them.
*   **Filtering:** Automatically filters out "Critical Syscalls" (see below) that are handled by the loader's default allow-list.
*   **Output:** Creates an `.ini` policy file with detected syscalls and template sections for Landlock. You can freely edit this, and add / remove functionality.

### 2. `sb-inject` (Injector)
The **Injector** takes a security policy (in `.ini` format) and embeds it into a target ELF binary.
*   **Mechanism:** It serializes the policy into a custom, non-allocatable ELF section named `.sandbox`.
*   **Integrity:** The policy becomes part of the binary's metadata, ensuring it travels with the executable.

### 3. `sb-load` (Enforcer)
The **Enforcer** is the runtime component that launches the hardened binary.
*   **Parsing:** It extracts the binary policy from the `.sandbox` section of the provided executable.
*   **Isolation:**
    *   **Landlock:** Restricts filesystem access (Read-Only/Read-Write) to specified paths.
    *   **Seccomp:** Applies a strict syscall whitelist.
*   **Security:** Sets `PR_SET_NO_NEW_PRIVS` to prevent privilege escalation.

### 4. Motivation
* It's an experiment. To see if I can automatically ship code with sane defaults.
* Sometimes it's hard to set a one size fits all for every binary, being able to pack the policy into the binary is convenient
* With so much AI coded tools, it's hard to ensure the stuff you release to the wild does not have unintended consequences. Bundling a restrictive policy can help developers "use what they need" in terms of permissions.
* This is pretty useful for a coding agent, like [std::slop](https://github.com/hsaliak/std_slop) or something else. You generate a binary, ask it to generate policies based on tests/runs, coalesce them, and embed it into your generated binary, along with the .ini file. Others can then load it.
* In the future, the loader need not be a separate executable. LSM and BPF can likely be used to do this in kernel?

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
*   Linux (Kernel 5.13+ for Landlock)
*   `libseccomp-dev`
*   CMake 3.15+
*   Ninja
*   C++17 Compiler (GCC/Clang)

### Building & Installation

```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G Ninja ..
ninja
ninja install
```

**Note:** If you don't have root privileges, the installer will automatically attempt to install to `~/bin`. Ensure `~/bin` is in your `$PATH`. You can also manually specify a prefix:
```bash
cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/custom/path ..
```

## Usage Workflow

### 1. Generate a Policy
Run your application through the generator to see what it needs. The generator will run the application and trace its syscalls.
```bash
./build/sb-gen policy.ini ./my_app [arg1] [arg2]
```

### 2. Review and Customize (`policy.ini`)
Open the generated `policy.ini` and add filesystem paths.

```ini
[landlock]
# Read-only access to libraries and config
ro = /usr/lib, /lib64, /etc/ld.so.cache
# Read-write access to temporary files
rw = /tmp

[seccomp]
# List of allowed syscalls (names)
allow = uname, getcwd, brk
```

### 3. Inject the Policy
Combine the policy and the binary into a new, hardened executable:
```bash
./build/sb-inject policy.ini ./my_app ./my_app_hardened
```

### 4. Run with Enforcement
Launch the hardened binary using the loader:
```bash
./build/sb-load ./my_app_hardened [args...]
```

## Policy Details

### Critical Syscalls
The loader automatically allows a set of 48 "Critical Syscalls" necessary for basic process operation (e.g., `execve`, `exit`, `read`, `write`, `mmap`, `rt_sigaction`). These are defined in `src/common/policy.cpp` and are intentionally omitted from generated `.ini` files to keep policies concise. Again, this is for practical purpose. It's just hard to meaningfully load any binary without these. 

### Landlock Path Resolution
Landlock rules apply to the specific filesystem objects identified by the paths in the policy. This is where a lot of policies can be tweaked. 
> **Note:** Currently, paths should be absolute. Future versions will support `realpath()` resolution for improved robustness against symlinks.
> **Note2:** Network syscalls will need you to at least allow access to `/etc/resolv.conf` for resolution.

## Security Features
*   **Fail-Closed:** `loader` will refuse to run binaries that do not contain a valid `.sandbox` section.
*   **Policy Integrity:** Policies are embedded in the ELF binary, making them harder to tamper with than external config files.
*   **Defense in Depth:** Combines Seccomp (syscalls) and Landlock (filesystem).

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
cd build
./policy_test
../tests/integration_test.sh ./sb-inject ./sb-load ./minimal_target ../tests/integration_policy.ini
```

### Code Quality
The project follows the Google C++ Style Guide and uses `clang-tidy` for linting.
*   **Auto-fix:** Run `ninja fix-style` in the build directory using `clang-tidy`.

Commit message:

Update README.md with SB branding and merge subcommand docs
Rationale: Updated README.md to reflect the new project branding (SB Sandbox Suite) and tool names (sb-gen, sb-inject, sb-load).
- Renamed title and tagline.
- Added documentation for the new 'merge' subcommand in sb-gen.
- Corrected the language requirement from C++17 to C11.
- Updated file paths (policy.cpp -> policy.c).
- Improved the 'Usage Workflow' section with policy consolidation examples.

README.md, after:

# SB Sandbox Suite
**S**ecure **B**inary Sandbox: A suite of tools to embed and enforce security policies directly within ELF binaries.

SB Sandbox is composed of three primary tools that allow you to define, inject, and enforce fine-grained security policies (Seccomp syscall allowlists and Landlock filesystem restrictions) directly into Linux executables. This means that you can set fine grained security policies (syscall whitelists and filesystem restrictions via Landlock) and inject them directly into ELF binaries, and enforce them at runtime. This is useful for shipping "sane defaults" for your tool. Currently, it supports directory/file access permissions through landlock, and syscall allowlists. It's an experiment in bundling reasonable security policies for applications, so that they are well behaved. 

## Core Components

### 1. `sb-gen` (Generator & Utility)
The **Generator** uses `ptrace` to observe a target application's execution and generate a baseline security policy. It also includes utility functions for managing policy files.

*   **Generation Mode:** Runs the target application and traces syscalls to build a recommended policy.
*   **Merge Mode:** Consolidates multiple policy files into one, deduplicating syscalls and filesystem paths.
*   **Filtering:** Automatically filters out "Critical Syscalls" (see below) that are handled by the loader's default allow-list.
*   **Output:** Creates an `.ini` policy file compatible with the rest of the suite.

### 2. `sb-inject` (Injector)
The **Injector** takes a security policy (in `.ini` format) and embeds it into a target ELF binary.
*   **Mechanism:** It serializes the policy into a custom, non-allocatable ELF section named `.sandbox`.
*   **Integrity:** The policy becomes part of the binary's metadata, ensuring it travels with the executable.

### 3. `sb-load` (Enforcer)
The **Enforcer** is the runtime component that launches the hardened binary.
*   **Parsing:** It extracts the binary policy from the `.sandbox` section of the provided executable.
*   **Isolation:**
    *   **Landlock:** Restricts filesystem access (Read-Only/Read-Write) to specified paths.
    *   **Seccomp:** Applies a strict syscall whitelist.
*   **Security:** Sets `PR_SET_NO_NEW_PRIVS` to prevent privilege escalation.

### 4. Motivation
* It's an experiment. To see if I can automatically ship code with sane defaults.
* Sometimes it's hard to set a one size fits all for every binary, being able to pack the policy into the binary is convenient
* With so much AI coded tools, it's hard to ensure the stuff you release to the wild does not have unintended consequences. Bundling a restrictive policy can help developers "use what they need" in terms of permissions.
* This is pretty useful for a coding agent, like [std::slop](https://github.com/hsaliak/std_slop) or something else. You generate a binary, ask it to generate policies based on tests/runs, coalesce them, and embed it into your generated binary, along with the .ini file. Others can then load it.
* In the future, the loader need not be a separate executable. LSM and BPF can likely be used to do this in kernel?

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
*   Linux (Kernel 5.13+ for Landlock)
*   `libseccomp-dev`
*   CMake 3.15+
*   Ninja
*   C11 Compiler (GCC/Clang)

### Building & Installation

```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G Ninja ..
ninja
ninja install
```

**Note:** If you don't have root privileges, the installer will automatically attempt to install to `~/bin`. Ensure `~/bin` is in your `$PATH`. You can also manually specify a prefix:
```bash
cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/custom/path ..
```

## Usage Workflow

### 1. Generate a Policy
Run your application through the generator to see what it needs. The generator will run the application and trace its syscalls.
```bash
./build/sb-gen policy.ini ./my_app [arg1] [arg2]
```

#### Consolidation (Optional)
If you run the application through multiple code paths, you can merge the resulting policies:
```bash
./build/sb-gen merge -o unified.ini run1.ini run2.ini run3.ini
```

### 2. Review and Customize (`policy.ini`)
Open the generated `policy.ini` and add filesystem paths.

```ini
[landlock]
# Read-only access to libraries and config
ro = /usr/lib, /lib64, /etc/ld.so.cache
# Read-write access to temporary files
rw = /tmp

[seccomp]
# List of allowed syscalls (names)
allow = uname, getcwd, brk
```

### 3. Inject the Policy
Combine the policy and the binary into a new, hardened executable:
```bash
./build/sb-inject policy.ini ./my_app ./my_app_hardened
```

### 4. Run with Enforcement
Launch the hardened binary using the loader:
```bash
./build/sb-load ./my_app_hardened [args...]
```

## Policy Details

### Critical Syscalls
The loader automatically allows a set of 48 "Critical Syscalls" necessary for basic process operation (e.g., `execve`, `exit`, `read`, `write`, `mmap`, `rt_sigaction`). These are defined in `src/common/policy.c` and are intentionally omitted from generated `.ini` files to keep policies concise. Again, this is for practical purpose. It's just hard to meaningfully load any binary without these. 

### Landlock Path Resolution
Landlock rules apply to the specific filesystem objects identified by the paths in the policy. This is where a lot of policies can be tweaked. 
> **Note:** Currently, paths should be absolute. Future versions will support `realpath()` resolution for improved robustness against symlinks.
> **Note2:** Network syscalls will need you to at least allow access to `/etc/resolv.conf` for resolution.

## Security Features
*   **Fail-Closed:** `loader` will refuse to run binaries that do not contain a valid `.sandbox` section.
*   **Policy Integrity:** Policies are embedded in the ELF binary, making them harder to tamper with than external config files.
*   **Defense in Depth:** Combines Seccomp (syscalls) and Landlock (filesystem).

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
cd build
./policy_test
../tests/integration_test.sh ./sb-inject ./sb-load ./minimal_target ../tests/integration_policy.ini
```

### Code Quality
The project follows the Google C Style Guide and uses `clang-tidy` for linting.
*   **Auto-fix:** Run `ninja fix-style` in the build directory using `clang-tidy`.
